
create_dataset - 0.0 seconds
create_model - 0.0 seconds
create_groundtruths - 1.9 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.2 seconds
create_groundtruths - 3.4 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.7 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.1 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.8 seconds
create_predictions - 0.7 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.5 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
_aggregate_data - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics_averaged_over_ious_from_aps - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics - 7.8 seconds
create_dataset - 0.0 seconds
create_model - 0.0 seconds
create_groundtruths - 1.9 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.4 seconds
create_groundtruths - 3.5 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.8 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.3 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.2 seconds
create_predictions - 0.9 seconds
create_predictions - 0.7 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.5 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
_aggregate_data - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics_averaged_over_ious_from_aps - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics - 7.9 seconds
create_dataset - 0.0 seconds
create_model - 0.0 seconds
create_groundtruths - 1.9 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.1 seconds
create_groundtruths - 3.3 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.7 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.1 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.9 seconds
create_predictions - 0.8 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.5 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
_aggregate_data - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics_averaged_over_ious_from_aps - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics - 7.8 seconds
create_dataset - 0.0 seconds
create_model - 0.0 seconds
create_groundtruths - 1.9 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.1 seconds
create_groundtruths - 3.4 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.9 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.2 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.4 seconds
create_predictions - 0.2 seconds
create_predictions - 0.9 seconds
create_predictions - 0.7 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.5 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
_aggregate_data - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics_averaged_over_ious_from_aps - 0.0 seconds
_compute_detection_metrics - 7.9 seconds
create_dataset - 0.0 seconds
create_model - 0.0 seconds
create_groundtruths - 1.9 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.0 seconds
create_groundtruths - 3.3 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.7 seconds
create_groundtruths - 6.1 seconds
create_groundtruths - 2.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.9 seconds
create_predictions - 0.7 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
create_predictions - 0.5 seconds
create_predictions - 0.3 seconds
_aggregate_data - 0.0 seconds