
# FAQ

**Q. What is Velour?**

**A.** Velour is a centralized evaluation store which makes it easy to measure, explore, and rank model performance. For an overview of what Velour is and why it's important, please refer to our [high-level overview](index.md).

**Q. What evaluation methods are supported?**

**A.** Velour currently support generic classification as well as object-detection and semantic-segmentation for images. The long-term goal for Velour is to support the most popular supervised methods.

**Q. Does Velour store data?**

**A.** Velour only stores annotations and user-defined metadata.

**Q. What is a GroundTruth?**

**A.** `velour.GroundTruth` objects in Velour each represent a singular datum and its associated annotations that provide a reference standard or the 'truth' against which predictions are compared. There cannot be multiple groundtruths per datum.

**Q. What is a Prediction?**

**A.** `velour.Prediction` objects are similar to `velour.GroundTruth` objects in that they also contain a list of annotations over a datum. However, these annotations are generated by a model as inferences, and the object also includes the name of the model that was used for creating these inferences. There cannot be multiple predictions by the same model over a single datum.

**Q. Why am I getting `NotFinalizedError` when trying to run an evaluation?**

**A.** Velour requires both dataset and model representations be finalized before evaluation can take place. Finalization is crucial for auditability as it ensures that data finalized at a certrain date is immutable.

In Velour you must always finalize your dataset groundtruths before use. Model predictions, however, are automatically finalized if a 1:1 mapping of predictions to groundtruth exists.

Model predictions can also be finalized prematurely using the `finalize_inferences` member function. This will generate empty predictions  with task type `enums.TaskType.SKIP` to achieve the 1:1 groundtruth mapping.

**Q. Can Velour handle multiple data types?**

**A.** Velour abstracts data types through metadata. An example of this can be seen in `velour.metatypes.ImageMetadata` which describes the mapping of an image to a `velour.Datum`.

**Q. Is Velour suitable for real-time evaluation?**

**A.** No, Velour is intended to operate over batched data.
