docs/index.md, before:

# Introduction

Velour is a centralized evaluation store that makes it easy to measure, explore, and rank model performance. Velour empowers data scientists and engineers to evaluate the performance of their machine learning pipelines and use those evaluations to make better modeling decisions in the future. [Click here](https://github.com/Striveworks/velour/blob/main/examples/getting_started.ipynb) to skip this textual introduction and dive right into our sample notebook.

Velour is maintained by Striveworks, a cutting-edge machine learning operations (MLOps) company based out of Austin, Texas. We'd love to learn more about your interest in Velour and answer any questions you may have; please don't hesitate to reach out to us on [Slack](https://striveworks-public.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-1a0jx768y-2J1fffN~b4fXYM8GecvOhA#/shared-invite/email) or [GitHub](https://github.com/striveworks/velour).

These docs are organized as follows:

- **[Overview](index.md)** (this page): Provides an overview of what Velour is, why it's important, and how it works.
- **[Sample Notebook](https://github.com/Striveworks/velour/blob/main/examples/getting_started.ipynb)**: Illustrates how to evaluate model performance using Velour in a descriptive Jupyter notebook.
- **[Getting Started](getting_started.md)**: Details everything you need to get up and running with Velour.
- **[Metrics](https://striveworks.github.io/velour/metrics)**: Describes all of the metrics that you can calculate using Velour.
- **[Endpoints](endpoints.md)**: Documents Velour's various API endpoints.
- **[Technical Concepts](technical_concepts.md)**: Describes the technical concepts that underpin Velour.
- **[Contributing and Development](getting_started.md)**: Explains how you can build on and contribute to Velour.
- **[Python Client API](client_api/Client.md)**: Shares reference documentation for our Python client.

# Overview

In this section, we'll explore what Velour is, why it's important, and provide a high-level description of how it works. This overview is also available in the following five-minute video:

<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-bottom: 56%;">
  <iframe style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; left: 0; top: 0;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SbJtZ9osFkg?si=P4SLqdspuTJ0sXbb" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

# Use Cases for a Containerized Evaluation Store

As we've worked with dozens of data scientists and engineers on their MLOps pipelines, we have identified three important questions that an effective evaluation store could help them answer. First, they wanted to understand: **"Of the various models I tested for a given dataset, which one performs best?"**. This is a very common and important use case—and one that is often solved on a model-to-model basis in a local Jupyter notebook. This focus on bespoke implementations limits traceability and makes it difficult to create apples-to-apples comparisons between new model runs and prior model runs.

Second, our users wanted to understand: **"How does the performance of a particular model vary across datasets?"**. We found that many practitioners use the same computer vision model (e.g., YOLOv8) for a variety of supervised learning tasks, and they needed a way to identify patterns where that particular model didn't meet expectations.

Finally, our users wanted to understand: **"How can I use my prior evaluations to pick the best model for a future ML pipeline?"**. This last question requires the ability to filter previous evaluations on granular metadata (e.g., time of day, geospatial coordinates, etc.) in order to provide tailored recommendations regarding which model to pick in the future.

With these three use cases in mind, we set out to build a centralized evaluation store that we later named Velour.

# Introducing Velour

Velour is a centralized evaluation store that makes it easy to measure, explore, and rank model performance. Our ultimate goal with Velour is to help data scientists and engineers pick the right ML model for their specific needs. To that end, we built Velour with three design principles in mind:

- **Velour works with any dataset or model:** We believe Velour should be able to handle any supervised learning task that you want to throw at it. Just pass in your groundtruth annotations and predictions, describe your learning task (i.e., object detection), and Velour will do the rest. (Note: At launch, Velour will only support classification and computer vision (i.e., image segmentation and object detection) tasks. We're confident this framework will abstract well to other supervised learning tasks and plan to support them in later releases).
- **Velour can handle any type of image, model, or dataset metadata you throw at it:** Metadata is a critical component of any evaluation store as it enables the system to offer tailored model recommendations based on a user's specific needs. To that end, we built Velour to handle any metadata under the sun. Dates, geospatial coordinates, and even JSONs filled with configuration details are all on the table. This means you can slice and dice your evaluations any way you want: just pass in the right labels for your use case and define your filter (say a geographic bounding box), and you’ll get back results for your specific needs.
- **Velour standardizes the evaluation process:** The trickiest part of comparing two different model runs is avoiding apples-to-oranges comparisons. Velour helps you audit your metrics and avoid false comparisons by versioning your uploads, storing them in a centralized location, and ensuring that you only compare runs that used the exact same filters and metrics.

# How It Works: An Illustrative Example

Let’s walk through a quick example to bring Velour to life.

Say that you're interested in using computer vision models to detect forest fires around the world using satellite imagery. You've just been tasked with building a new ML pipeline to detect fires in an unfamiliar region of interest. How might you leverage your evaluation metrics from prior ML pipelines to understand which model will perform best for this particular use case?

<img src="static/example_1.png" alt="A satellite image of forest fires.">

To answer this question, we'll start by passing in three pieces of information from each of our prior modeling runs:

- **GroundTruths:** First, we'll pass in human-annotated bounding boxes to tell Velour exactly where forest fires can be found across all of the satellite images used in prior runs.
- **Predictions:** Next, we'll pass machine-generated predictions for each image (also in the form of bounding boxes) so that Velour can evaluate how well each model did at predicting forest fires.
- **Labels:** Finally, we'll pass metadata to Velour describing each of our various images (e.g., the time of day the photo was taken, the geospatial coordinates of the forest in the photo, etc.). We'll use this metadata later on in order to identify the right model for our new use case.

Once we pass in these three ingredients, Velour will compare all of our `GroundTruths` and `Predictions` in order to calculate various evaluation metrics (i.e., mean average precision or mAP). These metrics, `Labels`, `GroundTruths`, and `Predictions`, will all be stored in Postgres, with PostGIS support for fast geospatial lookups and geometric comparisons at a later date.

Finally, once all of our previous pipeline runs and evaluations are stored in Velour, we can use Velour’s API to specify our exact filter criteria and get back its model rankings. In this case, we can ask Velour to find us the best model for detecting forest fires at night in a 50 mile radius around (42.36, -71.03), sorted by mAP. Velour will then filter all of our stored evaluation metrics, rank each model with evaluations that meet our criteria, and send back all relevant evaluation metrics to help us determine which model to use for our new modeling pipeline.

<img src="static/example_2.png" alt="A satellite image of forest fires.">

# Next Steps

To get started with Velour, we'd recommend reviewing our [sample notebooks](https://github.com/Striveworks/velour/blob/main/examples/getting_started.ipynb) or reading our [Getting Started docs](getting_started.md). For more detailed explanations of Velour's technical underpinnings, see our [technical concepts guide](technical_concepts.md).

# FAQ

**Q. What is Velour?**

**A.** Velour is a centralized evaluation store which makes it easy to measure, explore, and rank model performance. For an overview of what Velour is and why it's important, please refer to our [high-level overview](index.md).

**Q. What evaluation methods are supported?**

**A.** Velour currently support generic classification as well as object-detection and semantic-segmentation for images. The long-term goal for Velour is to support the most popular supervised learning methods.

**Q. Does Velour store data?**

**A.** Velour only stores groundtruth annotations, model predictions, and user-defined metadata.

**Q. What is a Datum?**

**A.** A `velour.Datum` object is a generic type that represents a datum in the context of a machine learning workflow. The object stores a uid and related metadata in a dictionary. This metadata allows for the user to construct their own abstraction layer by mapping a real-world type (e.g. an image) into a `velour.Datum` type.

```python
from velour.metatypes import ImageMetadata
image = ImageMetadata(
  uid = "1234",
  height = 100,
  width = 100,
)

# convert metatype to datum
datum = image.to_datum()
```

**Q. What is a GroundTruth?**

**A.** `velour.GroundTruth` objects in Velour each represent a singular datum and its associated annotations that provide a reference standard or the 'truth' against which predictions are compared. There cannot be multiple groundtruths per datum.

**Q. What is a Prediction?**

**A.** `velour.Prediction` objects are similar to `velour.GroundTruth` objects in that they also contain a list of annotations over a datum. However, these annotations are generated by a model as inferences, and the object also includes the name of the model that was used for creating these inferences. There cannot be multiple predictions by the same model over a single datum.

**Q. Can Velour handle multiple data types?**

**A.** Velour abstracts data types through metadata. An example of this can be seen in `velour.metatypes.ImageMetadata` which describes the mapping of an image to a `velour.Datum`.

# Troubleshooting

**Q. Why am I getting `NotFinalizedError` when trying to run an evaluation?**

**A.** Velour requires both dataset and model representations be finalized before evaluation can take place. Finalization is crucial for auditability as it ensures that data finalized at a certrain date is immutable.

Dataset finalization is accomplished throught the `velour.Dataset.finalize` member function.

```python
from velour import Client, Dataset
client = Client(...)
dataset = Dataset(name="test_dataset")
...
dataset.finalize()
```

Models are finalized automatically given two conditions.

1. The working dataset is finalized.
1. There is a 1:1 mapping of predictions to groundtruths.

Models and their predictions can also be finalized prematurely using the `velour.Model.finalize_inferences` member function. This will generate empty predictions with task type `enums.TaskType.SKIP` to achieve the 1:1 groundtruth mapping.

```python
from velour import Client, Dataset, Model
client = Client(...)
dataset = Dataset(name="test_dataset")
model = Model(name="test_model")
...
dataset.finalize()
model.finalize_inferences(dataset)
```

**Q. Why am I getting GDAL driver errors?**
**A.** For some computations (mostly involving rasters), Velour requires the PostGIS database to have all GDAL drivers enabled. The Velour backend attempts to enable these but it might not have permission depending on your specific setup. If you encounter this error, [see here](https://postgis.net/docs/postgis_gdal_enabled_drivers.html) for ways to enable the drivers directly in the PostGIS instance.

Commit message:

427 doc add doc describing how to filter on metadata (#432)

docs/index.md, after:

# Introduction

Velour is a centralized evaluation store that makes it easy to measure, explore, and rank model performance. Velour empowers data scientists and engineers to evaluate the performance of their machine learning pipelines and use those evaluations to make better modeling decisions in the future. [Click here](https://github.com/Striveworks/velour/blob/main/examples/getting_started.ipynb) to skip this textual introduction and dive right into our sample notebook.

Velour is maintained by Striveworks, a cutting-edge machine learning operations (MLOps) company based out of Austin, Texas. We'd love to learn more about your interest in Velour and answer any questions you may have; please don't hesitate to reach out to us on [Slack](https://striveworks-public.slack.com/join/shared_invite/zt-1a0jx768y-2J1fffN~b4fXYM8GecvOhA#/shared-invite/email) or [GitHub](https://github.com/striveworks/velour).

These docs are organized as follows:

- **[Overview](index.md)** (this page): Provides an overview of what Velour is, why it's important, and how it works.
- **[Sample Notebook](https://github.com/Striveworks/velour/blob/main/examples/getting_started.ipynb)**: Illustrates how to evaluate model performance using Velour in a descriptive Jupyter notebook.
- **[Getting Started](getting_started.md)**: Details everything you need to get up and running with Velour.
- **[Metadata and Filtering](metadata_and_filtering.md)**: Describes Velour's robust support for adding metadata to data, along with how to filter evaluations and Velour objects based on metadata and other attributes.
- **[Metrics](https://striveworks.github.io/velour/metrics)**: Describes all of the metrics that you can calculate using Velour.
- **[Endpoints](endpoints.md)**: Documents Velour's various API endpoints.
- **[Technical Concepts](technical_concepts.md)**: Describes the technical concepts that underpin Velour.
- **[Contributing and Development](getting_started.md)**: Explains how you can build on and contribute to Velour.
- **[Python Client API](client_api/Client.md)**: Shares reference documentation for our Python client.

# Overview

In this section, we'll explore what Velour is, why it's important, and provide a high-level description of how it works. This overview is also available in the following five-minute video:

<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; height: 0; padding-bottom: 56%;">
  <iframe style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%; left: 0; top: 0;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SbJtZ9osFkg?si=P4SLqdspuTJ0sXbb" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

# Use Cases for a Containerized Evaluation Store

As we've worked with dozens of data scientists and engineers on their MLOps pipelines, we have identified three important questions that an effective evaluation store could help them answer. First, they wanted to understand: **"Of the various models I tested for a given dataset, which one performs best?"**. This is a very common and important use case—and one that is often solved on a model-to-model basis in a local Jupyter notebook. This focus on bespoke implementations limits traceability and makes it difficult to create apples-to-apples comparisons between new model runs and prior model runs.

Second, our users wanted to understand: **"How does the performance of a particular model vary across datasets?"**. We found that many practitioners use the same computer vision model (e.g., YOLOv8) for a variety of supervised learning tasks, and they needed a way to identify patterns where that particular model didn't meet expectations.

Finally, our users wanted to understand: **"How can I use my prior evaluations to pick the best model for a future ML pipeline?"**. This last question requires the ability to filter previous evaluations on granular metadata (e.g., time of day, geospatial coordinates, etc.) in order to provide tailored recommendations regarding which model to pick in the future.

With these three use cases in mind, we set out to build a centralized evaluation store that we later named Velour.

# Introducing Velour

Velour is a centralized evaluation store that makes it easy to measure, explore, and rank model performance. Our ultimate goal with Velour is to help data scientists and engineers pick the right ML model for their specific needs. To that end, we built Velour with three design principles in mind:

- **Velour works with any dataset or model:** We believe Velour should be able to handle any supervised learning task that you want to throw at it. Just pass in your groundtruth annotations and predictions, describe your learning task (i.e., object detection), and Velour will do the rest. (Note: At launch, Velour will only support classification and computer vision (i.e., image segmentation and object detection) tasks. We're confident this framework will abstract well to other supervised learning tasks and plan to support them in later releases).
- **Velour can handle any type of image, model, or dataset metadata you throw at it:** Metadata is a critical component of any evaluation store as it enables the system to offer tailored model recommendations based on a user's specific needs. To that end, we built Velour to handle any metadata under the sun. Dates, geospatial coordinates, and even JSONs filled with configuration details are all on the table. This means you can slice and dice your evaluations any way you want: just pass in the right labels for your use case and define your filter (say a geographic bounding box), and you’ll get back results for your specific needs.
- **Velour standardizes the evaluation process:** The trickiest part of comparing two different model runs is avoiding apples-to-oranges comparisons. Velour helps you audit your metrics and avoid false comparisons by versioning your uploads, storing them in a centralized location, and ensuring that you only compare runs that used the exact same filters and metrics.

# How It Works: An Illustrative Example

Let’s walk through a quick example to bring Velour to life.

Say that you're interested in using computer vision models to detect forest fires around the world using satellite imagery. You've just been tasked with building a new ML pipeline to detect fires in an unfamiliar region of interest. How might you leverage your evaluation metrics from prior ML pipelines to understand which model will perform best for this particular use case?

<img src="static/example_1.png" alt="A satellite image of forest fires.">

To answer this question, we'll start by passing in three pieces of information from each of our prior modeling runs:

- **GroundTruths:** First, we'll pass in human-annotated bounding boxes to tell Velour exactly where forest fires can be found across all of the satellite images used in prior runs.
- **Predictions:** Next, we'll pass machine-generated predictions for each image (also in the form of bounding boxes) so that Velour can evaluate how well each model did at predicting forest fires.
- **Labels:** Finally, we'll pass metadata to Velour describing each of our various images (e.g., the time of day the photo was taken, the geospatial coordinates of the forest in the photo, etc.). We'll use this metadata later on in order to identify the right model for our new use case.

Once we pass in these three ingredients, Velour will compare all of our `GroundTruths` and `Predictions` in order to calculate various evaluation metrics (i.e., mean average precision or mAP). These metrics, `Labels`, `GroundTruths`, and `Predictions`, will all be stored in Postgres, with PostGIS support for fast geospatial lookups and geometric comparisons at a later date.

Finally, once all of our previous pipeline runs and evaluations are stored in Velour, we can use Velour’s API to specify our exact filter criteria and get back its model rankings. In this case, we can ask Velour to find us the best model for detecting forest fires at night in a 50 mile radius around (42.36, -71.03), sorted by mAP. Velour will then filter all of our stored evaluation metrics, rank each model with evaluations that meet our criteria, and send back all relevant evaluation metrics to help us determine which model to use for our new modeling pipeline.

<img src="static/example_2.png" alt="A satellite image of forest fires.">

# Next Steps

To get started with Velour, we'd recommend reviewing our [sample notebooks](https://github.com/Striveworks/velour/blob/main/examples/getting_started.ipynb) or reading our [Getting Started docs](getting_started.md). For more detailed explanations of Velour's technical underpinnings, see our [technical concepts guide](technical_concepts.md).

# FAQ

**Q. What is Velour?**

**A.** Velour is a centralized evaluation store which makes it easy to measure, explore, and rank model performance. For an overview of what Velour is and why it's important, please refer to our [high-level overview](index.md).

**Q. What evaluation methods are supported?**

**A.** Velour currently support generic classification as well as object-detection and semantic-segmentation for images. The long-term goal for Velour is to support the most popular supervised learning methods.

**Q. Does Velour store data?**

**A.** Velour only stores groundtruth annotations, model predictions, and user-defined metadata.

**Q. What is a Datum?**

**A.** A `velour.Datum` object is a generic type that represents a datum in the context of a machine learning workflow. The object stores a uid and related metadata in a dictionary. This metadata allows for the user to construct their own abstraction layer by mapping a real-world type (e.g. an image) into a `velour.Datum` type.

```python
from velour.metatypes import ImageMetadata
image = ImageMetadata(
  uid = "1234",
  height = 100,
  width = 100,
)

# convert metatype to datum
datum = image.to_datum()
```

**Q. What is a GroundTruth?**

**A.** `velour.GroundTruth` objects in Velour each represent a singular datum and its associated annotations that provide a reference standard or the 'truth' against which predictions are compared. There cannot be multiple groundtruths per datum.

**Q. What is a Prediction?**

**A.** `velour.Prediction` objects are similar to `velour.GroundTruth` objects in that they also contain a list of annotations over a datum. However, these annotations are generated by a model as inferences, and the object also includes the name of the model that was used for creating these inferences. There cannot be multiple predictions by the same model over a single datum.

**Q. Can Velour handle multiple data types?**

**A.** Velour abstracts data types through metadata. An example of this can be seen in `velour.metatypes.ImageMetadata` which describes the mapping of an image to a `velour.Datum`.

# Troubleshooting

**Q. Why am I getting `NotFinalizedError` when trying to run an evaluation?**

**A.** Velour requires both dataset and model representations be finalized before evaluation can take place. Finalization is crucial for auditability as it ensures that data finalized at a certrain date is immutable.

Dataset finalization is accomplished throught the `velour.Dataset.finalize` member function.

```python
from velour import Client, Dataset
client = Client(...)
dataset = Dataset(name="test_dataset")
...
dataset.finalize()
```

Models are finalized automatically given two conditions.

1. The working dataset is finalized.
1. There is a 1:1 mapping of predictions to groundtruths.

Models and their predictions can also be finalized prematurely using the `velour.Model.finalize_inferences` member function. This will generate empty predictions with task type `enums.TaskType.SKIP` to achieve the 1:1 groundtruth mapping.

```python
from velour import Client, Dataset, Model
client = Client(...)
dataset = Dataset(name="test_dataset")
model = Model(name="test_model")
...
dataset.finalize()
model.finalize_inferences(dataset)
```

**Q. Why am I getting GDAL driver errors?**
**A.** For some computations (mostly involving rasters), Velour requires the PostGIS database to have all GDAL drivers enabled. The Velour backend attempts to enable these but it might not have permission depending on your specific setup. If you encounter this error, [see here](https://postgis.net/docs/postgis_gdal_enabled_drivers.html) for ways to enable the drivers directly in the PostGIS instance.
