docs/metrics.md, before:

# Metrics

Let's look at the various metrics you can calculate using Valor.

If we're missing an important metric for your particular use case, please [write us a GitHub Issue ticket](https://github.com/Striveworks/valor/issues). We love hearing your suggestions.

## Classification Metrics

| Name | Description | Equation |
|:- | :- | :- |
| Precision | The number of true positives divided by the total number of positive predictions (i.e., the number of true positives plus the number of false positives). | $\dfrac{\|TP\|}{\|TP\|+\|FP\|}$ |
| Recall | The number of true positives divided by the total count of the class of interest (i.e., the number of true positives plus the number of true negatives). | $\dfrac{\|TP\|}{\|TP\|+\|FN\|}$ |
| F1 | A weighted average of precision and recall. | $\frac{2 * Precision * Recall}{Precision + Recall}$ |
| Accuracy | The number of true predictions divided by the total number of predictions. | $\dfrac{\|TP\|+\|TN\|}{\|TP\|+\|TN\|+\|FP\|+\|FN\|}$ |
| ROC AUC | The area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve for the predictions generated by a given model. | See [ROCAUC methods](#binary-roc-auc). |

## Object Detection and Instance Segmentation Metrics[^1]

| Name | Description | Equation |
| :- | :- | :- |
| Average Precision (AP) | The weighted mean of precisions achieved at several different recall thresholds for a single Intersection over Union (IOU), grouped by class. | See [AP methods](#average-precision-ap). |
| AP Averaged Over IOUs | The average of several AP metrics, calculated at various IOUs, grouped by class. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of thresholds}} \sum\limits_{iou \in thresholds} AP_{iou}$ |
| Mean Average Precision (mAP) 	| The mean of several AP scores, calculated over various classes. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of classes}} \sum\limits_{c \in classes} AP_{c}$ |
| mAP Averaged Over IOUs | The mean of several averaged AP scores, calculated over various classes. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of thresholds}} \sum\limits_{iou \in thresholds} mAP_{iou}$ |

[^1]: When calculating IOUs for object detection metrics, Valor handles the necessary conversion between different types of geometric annotations. For example, if your model prediction is a polygon and your groundtruth is a raster, then the raster will be converted to a polygon prior to calculating the IOU.

## Semantic Segmentation Metrics

| Name | Description | Equation |
| :- | :- | :- |
| Intersection Over Union (IOU) | A ratio between the groundtruth and predicted regions of an image, measured as a percentage, grouped by class. |$\dfrac{area( prediction \cap groundtruth )}{area( prediction \cup groundtruth )}$ |
| Mean IOU 	| The average of IOUs, calculated over several different classes. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of classes}} \sum\limits_{c \in classes} IOU_{c}$ |

# Appendix: Metric Calculations

## Binary ROC AUC

### Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC)

An ROC curve plots the True Positive Rate (TPR) vs. the False Positive Rate (FPR) at different confidence thresholds.

In Valor, we use the confidence scores sorted in decreasing order as our thresholds. Using these thresholds, we can calculate our TPR and FPR as follows:

#### Determining the Rate of Correct Predictions

| Element | Description |
| ------- | ------------ |
| True Positive (TP) | Prediction confidence score >= threshold and is correct. |
| False Positive (FP) | Prediction confidence score >= threshold and is incorrect. |
| True Negative (TN) | Prediction confidence score < threshold and is correct. |
| False Negative (FN) | Prediction confidence score < threshold and is incorrect. |

- $\text{True Positive Rate (TPR)} = \dfrac{|TP|}{|TP| + |FN|} = \dfrac{|TP(threshold)|}{|TP(threshold)| + |FN(threshold)|}$

- $\text{False Positive Rate (FPR)} = \dfrac{|FP|}{|FP| + |TN|} = \dfrac{|FP(threshold)|}{|FP(threshold)| + |TN(threshold)|}$

We now use the confidence scores, sorted in decreasing order, as our thresholds in order to generate points on a curve.

$Point(score) = (FPR(score), \ TPR(score))$

### Area Under the ROC Curve (ROC AUC)

After calculating the ROC curve, we find the ROC AUC metric by approximating the integral using the trapezoidal rule formula.

$ROC AUC =  \sum_{i=1}^{|scores|} \frac{  \lVert Point(score_{i-1}) - Point(score_i) \rVert }{2}$

See [Classification: ROC Curve and AUC](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/classification/roc-and-auc) for more information.

## Average Precision (AP)

For object detection and instance segmentation tasks, average precision is calculated from the intersection-over-union (IOU) of geometric predictions and ground truths.

### Multiclass Precision and Recall

Tasks that predict geometries (such as object detection or instance segmentation) use the ratio intersection-over-union (IOU) to calculate precision and recall. IOU is the ratio of the intersecting area over the joint area spanned by the two geometries, and is defined in the following equation.

$Intersection \ over \ Union \ (IOU) = \dfrac{Area( prediction \cap groundtruth )}{Area( prediction \cup groundtruth )}$

Using different IOU thresholds, we can determine whether we count a pairing between a prediction and a ground truth pairing based on their overlap.

| Case | Description |
| :- | :- |
| True Positive (TP) | Prediction-GroundTruth pair exists with IOU >= threshold. |
| False Positive (FP) | Prediction-GroundTruth pair exists with IOU < threshold. |
| True Negative (TN) | Unused in multi-class evaluation.
| False Negative (FN) | No Prediction with a matching label exists for the GroundTruth. |

- $Precision = \dfrac{|TP|}{|TP| + |FP|} = \dfrac{\text{Number of True Predictions}}{|\text{Predictions}|}$

- $Recall = \dfrac{|TP|}{|TP| + |FN|} = \dfrac{\text{Number of True Predictions}}{|\text{Groundtruths}|}$

### Matching Ground Truths with Predictions

To properly evaluate a detection, we must first find the best pairings of predictions to ground truths. We start by iterating over our predictions, ordering them by highest scores first. We pair each prediction with the ground truth that has the highest calculated IOU. Both the prediction and ground truth are now considered paired and removed from the pool of choices.

```python
def rank_ious(
    groundtruths: list,
    predictions: list,
) -> list[float]:
    """Ranks ious by unique pairings."""

    retval = []
    groundtruths = set(groundtruths)
    for prediction in sorted(predictions, key=lambda x : -x.score):
        groundtruth = max(groundtruths, key=lambda x : calculate_iou(groundtruth, prediction))
        groundtruths.remove(groundtruth)
        retval.append(calculate_iou(groundtruth, prediction))
```

### Precision-Recall Curve

We can now compute the precision-recall curve using our previously ranked IOU's. We do this by iterating through the ranked IOU's and creating points cumulatively using recall and precision.

```python
def create_precision_recall_curve(
    number_of_groundtruths: int,
    ranked_ious: list[float],
    threshold: float
) -> list[tuple[float, float]]:
    """Creates the precision-recall curve from a list of IOU's and a threshold."""

    retval = []
    count_tp = 0
    for i in range(ranked_ious):
        if ranked_ious[i] >= threshold:
            count_tp += 1
        precision = count_tp / (i + 1)
        recall = count_tp / number_of_groundtruths
        retval.append((recall, precision))
```

### Calculating Average Precision

Average precision is defined as the area under the precision-recall curve.

We will use a 101-point interpolation of the curve to be consistent with the COCO evaluator. The intent behind interpolation is to reduce the fuzziness that results from ranking pairs.

$AP = \frac{1}{101} \sum\limits_{r\in\{ 0, 0.01, \ldots , 1 \}}\rho_{interp}(r)$

$\rho_{interp} = \underset{\tilde{r}:\tilde{r} \ge r}{max \ \rho (\tilde{r})}$

### References
- [MS COCO Detection Evaluation](https://cocodataset.org/#detection-eval)
- [The PASCAL Visual Object Classes (VOC) Challenge](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11263-009-0275-4)
- [Mean Average Precision (mAP) Using the COCO Evaluator](https://pyimagesearch.com/2022/05/02/mean-average-precision-map-using-the-coco-evaluator/)

Commit message:

Add Average Recall to OD metrics (#460)

docs/metrics.md, after:

# Metrics
Let's look at the various metrics you can calculate using Valor.

If we're missing an important metric for your particular use case, please [write us a GitHub Issue ticket](https://github.com/Striveworks/valor/issues). We love hearing your suggestions.

## Classification Metrics

| Name | Description | Equation |
|:- | :- | :- |
| Precision | The number of true positives divided by the total number of positive predictions (i.e., the number of true positives plus the number of false positives). | $\dfrac{\|TP\|}{\|TP\|+\|FP\|}$ |
| Recall | The number of true positives divided by the total count of the class of interest (i.e., the number of true positives plus the number of true negatives). | $\dfrac{\|TP\|}{\|TP\|+\|FN\|}$ |
| F1 | A weighted average of precision and recall. | $\frac{2 * Precision * Recall}{Precision + Recall}$ |
| Accuracy | The number of true predictions divided by the total number of predictions. | $\dfrac{\|TP\|+\|TN\|}{\|TP\|+\|TN\|+\|FP\|+\|FN\|}$ |
| ROC AUC | The area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve for the predictions generated by a given model. | See [ROCAUC methods](#binary-roc-auc). |

## Object Detection and Instance Segmentation Metrics**

| Name | Description | Equation |
| :- | :- | :- |
| Average Precision (AP) | The weighted mean of precisions achieved at several different recall thresholds for a single Intersection over Union (IOU), grouped by class. | See [AP methods](#average-precision-ap). |
| AP Averaged Over IOUs | The average of several AP metrics across IOU thresholds, grouped by class labels. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of thresholds}} \sum\limits_{iou \in thresholds} AP_{iou}$ |
| Mean Average Precision (mAP) 	| The average of several AP metrics across class labels, grouped by IOU thresholds. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of classes}} \sum\limits_{c \in classes} AP_{c}$ |
| mAP Averaged Over IOUs | The average of several  mAP metrics across class labels. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of thresholds}} \sum\limits_{iou \in thresholds} mAP_{iou}$ |
| Average Recall (AR) | The average of several recall metrics across IOU thresholds, grouped by class labels. | See [AR methods](#average-recall-ar). |
| Mean Average Recall (mAR) | The average of several AR metrics across class labels. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of classes}} \sum\limits_{class \in classes} AR_{class}$ |

**When calculating IOUs for object detection metrics, Valor handles the necessary conversion between different types of geometric annotations. For example, if your model prediction is a polygon and your groundtruth is a raster, then the raster will be converted to a polygon prior to calculating the IOU.

## Semantic Segmentation Metrics

| Name | Description | Equation |
| :- | :- | :- |
| Intersection Over Union (IOU) | A ratio between the groundtruth and predicted regions of an image, measured as a percentage, grouped by class. |$\dfrac{area( prediction \cap groundtruth )}{area( prediction \cup groundtruth )}$ |
| Mean IOU 	| The average of IOUs, calculated over several different classes. | $\dfrac{1}{\text{number of classes}} \sum\limits_{c \in classes} IOU_{c}$ |

# Appendix: Metric Calculations

## Binary ROC AUC

### Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC)

An ROC curve plots the True Positive Rate (TPR) vs. the False Positive Rate (FPR) at different confidence thresholds.

In Valor, we use the confidence scores sorted in decreasing order as our thresholds. Using these thresholds, we can calculate our TPR and FPR as follows:

#### Determining the Rate of Correct Predictions

| Element | Description |
| ------- | ------------ |
| True Positive (TP) | Prediction confidence score >= threshold and is correct. |
| False Positive (FP) | Prediction confidence score >= threshold and is incorrect. |
| True Negative (TN) | Prediction confidence score < threshold and is correct. |
| False Negative (FN) | Prediction confidence score < threshold and is incorrect. |

- $\text{True Positive Rate (TPR)} = \dfrac{|TP|}{|TP| + |FN|} = \dfrac{|TP(threshold)|}{|TP(threshold)| + |FN(threshold)|}$

- $\text{False Positive Rate (FPR)} = \dfrac{|FP|}{|FP| + |TN|} = \dfrac{|FP(threshold)|}{|FP(threshold)| + |TN(threshold)|}$

We now use the confidence scores, sorted in decreasing order, as our thresholds in order to generate points on a curve.

$Point(score) = (FPR(score), \ TPR(score))$

### Area Under the ROC Curve (ROC AUC)

After calculating the ROC curve, we find the ROC AUC metric by approximating the integral using the trapezoidal rule formula.

$ROC AUC =  \sum_{i=1}^{|scores|} \frac{  \lVert Point(score_{i-1}) - Point(score_i) \rVert }{2}$

See [Classification: ROC Curve and AUC](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/classification/roc-and-auc) for more information.

## Average Precision (AP)

For object detection and instance segmentation tasks, average precision is calculated from the intersection-over-union (IOU) of geometric predictions and ground truths.

### Multiclass Precision and Recall

Tasks that predict geometries (such as object detection or instance segmentation) use the ratio intersection-over-union (IOU) to calculate precision and recall. IOU is the ratio of the intersecting area over the joint area spanned by the two geometries, and is defined in the following equation.

$Intersection \ over \ Union \ (IOU) = \dfrac{Area( prediction \cap groundtruth )}{Area( prediction \cup groundtruth )}$

Using different IOU thresholds, we can determine whether we count a pairing between a prediction and a ground truth pairing based on their overlap.

| Case | Description |
| :- | :- |
| True Positive (TP) | Prediction-GroundTruth pair exists with IOU >= threshold. |
| False Positive (FP) | Prediction-GroundTruth pair exists with IOU < threshold. |
| True Negative (TN) | Unused in multi-class evaluation.
| False Negative (FN) | No Prediction with a matching label exists for the GroundTruth. |

- $Precision = \dfrac{|TP|}{|TP| + |FP|} = \dfrac{\text{Number of True Predictions}}{|\text{Predictions}|}$

- $Recall = \dfrac{|TP|}{|TP| + |FN|} = \dfrac{\text{Number of True Predictions}}{|\text{Groundtruths}|}$

### Matching Ground Truths with Predictions

To properly evaluate a detection, we must first find the best pairings of predictions to ground truths. We start by iterating over our predictions, ordering them by highest scores first. We pair each prediction with the ground truth that has the highest calculated IOU. Both the prediction and ground truth are now considered paired and removed from the pool of choices.

```python
def rank_ious(
    groundtruths: list,
    predictions: list,
) -> list[float]:
    """Ranks ious by unique pairings."""

    retval = []
    groundtruths = set(groundtruths)
    for prediction in sorted(predictions, key=lambda x : -x.score):
        groundtruth = max(groundtruths, key=lambda x : calculate_iou(groundtruth, prediction))
        groundtruths.remove(groundtruth)
        retval.append(calculate_iou(groundtruth, prediction))
```

### Precision-Recall Curve

We can now compute the precision-recall curve using our previously ranked IOU's. We do this by iterating through the ranked IOU's and creating points cumulatively using recall and precision.

```python
def create_precision_recall_curve(
    number_of_groundtruths: int,
    ranked_ious: list[float],
    threshold: float
) -> list[tuple[float, float]]:
    """Creates the precision-recall curve from a list of IOU's and a threshold."""

    retval = []
    count_tp = 0
    for i in range(ranked_ious):
        if ranked_ious[i] >= threshold:
            count_tp += 1
        precision = count_tp / (i + 1)
        recall = count_tp / number_of_groundtruths
        retval.append((recall, precision))
```

### Calculating Average Precision

Average precision is defined as the area under the precision-recall curve.

We will use a 101-point interpolation of the curve to be consistent with the COCO evaluator. The intent behind interpolation is to reduce the fuzziness that results from ranking pairs.

$AP = \frac{1}{101} \sum\limits_{r\in\{ 0, 0.01, \ldots , 1 \}}\rho_{interp}(r)$

$\rho_{interp} = \underset{\tilde{r}:\tilde{r} \ge r}{max \ \rho (\tilde{r})}$

### References
- [MS COCO Detection Evaluation](https://cocodataset.org/#detection-eval)
- [The PASCAL Visual Object Classes (VOC) Challenge](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11263-009-0275-4)
- [Mean Average Precision (mAP) Using the COCO Evaluator](https://pyimagesearch.com/2022/05/02/mean-average-precision-map-using-the-coco-evaluator/)

## Average Recall (AR)

To calculate Average Recall (AR), we:

1. Find the count of true positives above specified IOU and confidence thresholds for all images containing a ground truth of a particular class.
2. Divide that count of true positives by the total number of ground truths to get the recall value per class and IOU threshold. Append that recall value to a list.
3. Repeat steps 1 & 2 for multiple IOU thresholds (e.g., [.5, .75])
4. Take the average of our list of recalls to arrive at the AR value per class.

Note that this metric differs from COCO's calculation in two ways:

- COCO averages across classes while calculating AR, while we calculate AR separately for each class. Our AR calculations matches the original FAIR definition of AR, while our mAR calculations match what COCO calls AR.
- COCO calculates three different AR metrics (AR@1, AR@5, AR@100)) by considering only the top 1/5/100 most confident predictions during the matching process. Valor, on the other hand, allows users to input a `recall_score_threshold` value that will prevent low-confidence predictions from being counted as true positives when calculating AR.
